# Module1-Projects
ApplePicker, Mission Demolition and Prototype 1

## Mashup Project
For my mashup project, I decided to focus on working with collisions and physics, because I found them somewhat difficult to understand when I took Intro to Game Engines last year, and the ApplePicker and Mission Demolition assignments helped me understand how to use them in more interesting ways. I thought the destructible buildings in Mission Demolition were fun, and decided I wanted to incorporate those into my design somehow. I also wanted to try using the new input system like we did in Roll-A-Ball, so I decided to try to build a simple 2D side scroller controller. I wasn't entirely sure what type of game I wanted to create starting out beyond a side scroller with keyboard controls, but I experimented with what actions felt good and decided to focus more on those, which led me to try to create a vertical climbing platformer with some randomized elements and a score/elevation counter to give players the feeling that they are making progress. I looked to Schell's Elemental tetrad for some guidance, and decided that a few simple touches such as adding a red sphere to the player model to show the direction they are facing and adding some simple eyes to the thundercloud enemy suggested a simple story(Protagonist, antagonist, obstacles) which let me use the technology I had available(Concepts and components from the other prototypes) to create more interesting mechanics.  

Early experiments with mechanics were done assuming the level would be primarily horizontal, with some light platforming to avoid enemy projectiles. I had wanted to use two enemy types: a flying enemy attached to the main camera that dropped projectiles from above, and an enemy that would wander back and forth on the ground and fire horizontally moving projectiles. The level would end/reset when the player reached a goal point on the far end. As I built the character controller, I decided that focusing on vertical climbing might make better use of the assets I had created already in the other prototypes, and I thought that it made the stakes more interesting(If you fall, you die, v.s. if you fall, you just end up with more cover from the flying enemy). I also decided to only implement a flying Storm Cloud enemy, based on the behavior of the AppleTree from ApplePicker, which drops lightning bolts that can kill the player. I created a simple system for spawning random platforms at fixed intervals and used a modified version of the follow camera script to allow for infinite vertical climbing on the Y-axis.  

As I experimented with the mechanics, I noticed it was very easy to avoid getting hit, because the enemy's movement was random and the player could simply wait under a platform for it to move. To make this strategy more risky, I gave each platform a set amount of durability in a modified version of the RigidBodySleep script, which would be decremented when a lightning bolt hit it. When a platform's durability reaches zero, isKinematic is set to false, and the platform drops off the screen. This made it so it is possible for a platform to be destroyed if the player waits too long. I also altered the script to set isKinematic to false when a platform approaches the bottom of the screen,so they visibly fall away as the player climbs, which I feel adds to the sense of urgency of the climb and makes it clear that it is not possible to climb down. 

I had originally tried to include a slingshot weapon attached to the player avatar that could be aimed and fired with the mouse, but upon testing it, I decided that designing and coding an interesting enough enemy variety and refining the shooting mechanics would be difficult and time-consuming, and probably beyond a sane interpretation of the scope of this project, so I decided to remove the shooting mechanic entirely. 

## External Resources
The 2D side scroller controller was adapted from this tutorial: 
**2D Platformer with new input system**    
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=24-BkpFSZuI
